docs/README.md, before:

# Personal environment setup

## How it works

- Keep all config files in this git repo and symlink them to your `$HOME`
- Install and `zsh` shell. This can be run in a fresh Unix installation
- Use [`devbox`](https://github.com/jetify-com/devbox) as vendor-agnostic package manager (uses Nix in the background)
- Keep global apps and configs as few as possible, use devbox and direnv for setups per project/directory

## Paradigms

- Deterministic: Can run scripts multiple times
- As few assumptions/restrictions as possible
  - No hard-coded paths, use `$_SETUP` to reference files in this repository
  - (Almost) no apps on host system like python runtime
- Allow local customization:
  - Customize via `.envrc` and `devbox.json`
  - Integrate some `.local` files where needed, e.g. `~/.gitconfig.local` and `~/.zshrc.local`

## Install

- Install a nerdfont
- Install git
- Clone this repository to any location including submodules
  ```shell
  git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/mikel-jason/personal-env-setup
  ```
- Run `./scripts/install.sh` to install mandatory
- Run `./scripts/bootstrap.sh`
- Reload your terminal
- Optional: Add a post-receive hook to auto-update on every pull

## Usage

See [Project Guide](./PROJECT.md) to read about creating local project envs.

## References

- [GitHub: holman/dotfiles](https://github.com/holman/dotfiles): Method of loading files based on the file ending
- [YouTube: DevOps Toolkit - Nix for Everyone: Unleash Devbox for Simplified Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WiFLtcBvGMU): Why devbox
- [Arch Linux Wiki: XDG Base Directory](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/XDG_Base_Directory): Extensive list of apps with respective options to change config locations

Commit message:

feat(bootstrap): drop zsh from install process, add as prereq

docs/README.md, after:

# Personal environment setup

## How it works

- Keep all config files in this git repo and symlink them to your `$HOME`
- Install and `zsh` shell. This can be run in a fresh Unix installation
- Use [`devbox`](https://github.com/jetify-com/devbox) as vendor-agnostic package manager (uses Nix in the background)
- Keep global apps and configs as few as possible, use devbox and direnv for setups per project/directory

## Paradigms

- Deterministic: Can run scripts multiple times
- As few assumptions/restrictions as possible
  - No hard-coded paths, use `$_SETUP` to reference files in this repository
  - (Almost) no apps on host system like python runtime
    - `zsh`: Bootstrapping is a problem: Must read `.zshrc` to make `zsh` via devbox available. Must be recognized by VSCode.
    - `git`: Bootstrapping & git is used everywhere, so for performance of devbox shells
- Allow local customization:
  - Customize via `.envrc` and `devbox.json`
  - Integrate some `.local` files where needed, e.g. `~/.gitconfig.local` and `~/.zshrc.local`

## Install

- Install a nerdfont
- Install zsh (https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/wiki/Installing-ZSH) and make it the default (`chsh -s "$(which zsh)"`)
- Install git
- Clone this repository to any location including submodules
  ```shell
  git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/mikel-jason/personal-env-setup
  ```
- Run `./scripts/install.sh` to install mandatory
- Run `./scripts/bootstrap.sh`
- Reload your terminal
- Optional: Add a post-receive hook to auto-update on every pull

## Usage

See [Project Guide](./PROJECT.md) to read about creating local project envs.

## References

- [GitHub: holman/dotfiles](https://github.com/holman/dotfiles): Method of loading files based on the file ending
- [YouTube: DevOps Toolkit - Nix for Everyone: Unleash Devbox for Simplified Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WiFLtcBvGMU): Why devbox
- [Arch Linux Wiki: XDG Base Directory](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/XDG_Base_Directory): Extensive list of apps with respective options to change config locations
